>> Brian Holt: Okay,
we are almost done with our MCP server.
Let's just add our last couple lines here.
Const Transport equals new
standard IO server transport.
Transport is just basically
like how am I getting this?
Like, how am I managing all
the messaging out of this?
We talked about there was sses,
streaming HTTP and then standard IO.
We're using that.
Those are all called transports.
That's what that term is in
that particular case means.
And we're just going to say await server,
connect transport.
So this is just a process
that you leave running or
in the case of like Claude desktop,
you give it the files like to go run and
then it'll go run that server for
you inside of its shared processes.
In our case here, we should just
be able to say nodemcp JS yeah,
you probably need to tell this as
a type module right here as well.
So in your package JSON,
if you see something like this,
it's because I'm using import, right?
So you have to say type module and
it's running and I needed to save.
Cancel, save.
There we go.
Okay, so you should see something
like this where it's just like,
it seems like it's hanging, right?
That's because the server is running and
it's waiting for
something to be input into it, right?
So let's go give it something now.
Well, you know, let's do it.
Let's make you type painful
JSON by hand because it's fun.
We're gonna do this once.
After that I'm going to let you copy and
paste.
So we're gonna echo something into
the standard IO into the input, right?
We're going to pipe that
into our node server and
then we're going to see what it says.
Echo.
So if you're not familiar with echo,
it just outputs something and
then we're going to pipe that into it.
So if I say echo hi, it's just
going to say hi echo, single quote.
Make sure adamant here
that we're single quote,
open and curly brace, jsonrpc:.
We'll say what kind of
JSON RPC we're doing.
MCP is all based on JSON RPC 2.0.
We will talk in just
a second about what that is.
Okay.
And we're going to say ID one because
you have to identify
what client you are or
what command you are.
In any case, McP requires this ID here,
something that you'll
never manage yourself.
All your client and your server will
kinda handshake those things together.
Method.
If you're not Familiar with the RPC,
all RPCs look like this Tools list.
Okay, we'll say params.
Another opening curly brace here,
name add and then arguments and
then opening curly brace.
Closing, closing.
Single quote.
Hopefully you got it.
Let's just make sure that I got it there.
I did.
Okay, if you're not familiar with JQ or
if you don't have it installed,
does it come installed on Mac or
do you have to install it?
I don't remember.
If you have Brew,
you can just say brew, install jq.
It'll work.
It's like a JSON query language.
It's a really handy binary for
working with JSON in the command line.
As you can see here.
It just pretty prints it for me.
Okay, so that's correct.
So I'm gonna take that
same command here and
then I'm gonna say node mcp.js,
this is just a pipe.
This is saying take this and then insert
that as the input into this process.
You'll get some amount of results there.
If you want it to as well,
you can just pipe that into JQ as well,
and you can get this nice
pretty printed thing.
Essentially I called the Tools list,
which is basically saying like,
tell me everything that you know
about this particular function and
it'll tell you this is the name,
this is the addition.
It adds two numbers together,
all these things.
Here's the required.
This is all the information that your MCP
server would pass back to a client and
basically how they handshake it like,
here's the tools that are available,
right?
Cuz imagine Claude Desktop is starting up.
It's going to call this MCP Server,
and the MCP server is going to say,
here's everything that I can do for you.
Here's all the text that you need
to ingest to know that I have
an addition tool,
I have a subtraction tool.
This is what it responds with here.
Pretty cool.
Most of this wiring up is all done
by this model Context Protocol SDK,
which is to say that we could
have written all of this.
It just wouldn't have been very fun nor
useful to anybody here, right?
But this results call all that kind of
stuff, like keeping track of all your
tools and all that kind of stuff
is what this package does for you.
Okay, so it's listing stuff now.
Let's actually make it add, right?
We've come so far.
What is two plus three?
I don't know.
Let's ask.
There's no other way I
could figure this out.
So we're going to come
back to the same call.
It looks really similar.
Instead of saying Tools list,
we're going to say Tools call.
And we're going to give
it two arguments here.
We're going to
give it A two and
B three.
So I changed two things.
Instead of Tools call, it's Tools list.
Other way around,
instead of Tools list, it's Tools call.
And then I gave it two params.
So now we should be able to call this.
And through all of this machinery,
all this code,
we have discovered that 23 is indeed 5.
What's cool about this though
is we now have this server that
we can hand over to an LLM and
say run this.
And whenever you run into a problem shaped
of this nature that this tool looks like
it can solve, pass in all of your
parameters that the user has given you or
that you have invented yourself.
And then I deterministically,
using software,
will discover the answer for
you and then hand it back to you.
The addition was just a good way for
us to get started here.
So let's talk for just a hot second about
JSON rpc because I think it's useful for
you to know that the language that's being
spoken here because inevitably you're
going to have to read some of these.
Yeah, we showed you Tools list.
This is just like, hey,
show me everything that you can do.
There's also Tools initialize.
In fact, I think we do that down here.
Yeah, I'll show you Tools Initialize here
in just a second or just initialize.
In general, there's also like
resources and prompts and
all these other capabilities.
But that's what this method is.
Essentially, a RP stands for
Remote Protocol.
No, I forgot what it says.
>> Student: Remote Procedure call.
>> Brian Holt: Remote Procedure call.
Thank you.
Where basically you're
telling something remotely.
I want you to run this
function on your side.
That's what the RPC parts of it stand for.
And then JSON's, obviously, and
I'm going to do this with you using JSON,
obviously there is an XML rpc.
There's other ways of doing it as well.
I mean that's really it.
JSON, rpc, if you look here, has been out.
So we're using 2.0 since 2009.
That's longer than at
least some of our careers.
Is it longer than my career?
It's basically as old as my career.
I think I got my first Dev job in 2009.
We're reusing old technology here.
So I mean, you can think of RPC
as like an alternative to rest.
So rest, essentially you have like a
resource that exists out in the cloud and
you're saying, hey,
I'm going to patch this,
Use this information to
patch this resource.
RPC is less around resources,
which is what REST cares about.
RPC is more around like, hey, you do
something for me using these parameters?
Does that make sense?
We don't really use it too much outside
of like, it's really common for
infrastructure like DevOps kind of
stuff to use RPC for like web dev.
We don't use RPC because we're in
love with like GraphQL or rest or
some of these other things.
That's it.
That is all that JSON RPC is.
There's actually nothing
AI specific about this.
So let's just run this command for fun.
I'm not gonna make you type it,
that sounds way too hard.
So this is initializing.
You're telling it what version of the
protocol that you're going to be using.
This is MCP protocol.
Has a list changed?
Yes.
There's a bunch of
stuff you can basically ask it.
Like, I have these things cached.
Are these things okay to keep cached?
It tells you what it is.
Then at that point you say,
okay, you have an AD server.
Tell me everything about the AD server.
Tell me all your tools, tell me all your
prompts, tell me all your resources.
And this does all the handshaking and
figuring out, here's everything that
this MCP server purports that it can do.
Everything that we're going to do with
writing MCP servers after this is just
variations on this.
At this point, I'm very okay if you just
choose to copy and paste code, because
rewriting this code over and over again is
not really going to teach you too much.
It's actually more just about
the semantics that I care about
than the actual individual
pieces of code when I
write MCP servers because I
somewhat frequently do it for like.
Well, here's a good example.
I was working with Vercel the other day.
Vercel doesn't have
a streamable HTTP MCP server.
They have a local one, but
they don't have one that works remotely.
I just had my claude code write one for
me and then I started using it.
I actually rarely author them myself.
I just make all of my coding tools author
their own tools and then use the tools.